JB blog (#1)
mkondratek/git-machete-blog-post: blog.md

## Take a look at your repository from a new perspective with Git Machete Plugin!

Git and IntelliJ-based software is currently one of the most important tools in software development.
The version control system provided with the JetBrains's IDE products
allows performing pretty much all everyday VCS actions directly via the IDE.
Among the many useful benefits of the provided IDE and VCS integration,
the full support of GitHub Pull Requests introduced in IDEA 2020.2 must be emphasized.

Creating and maintaining small, focused, easy-to-review PRs is a comfortable and desired approach
for both the authors and, especially, the reviewers.
[VirtusLab](https://virtuslab.com/) created a plugin that eases the management of 2+ branches in the repository
while also promoting creation of small PRs &mdash;
**a git repository organizer, and a rebase/merge/push/pull automation tool, named Git Machete.**

> It allows to look at the state of the repository from a previously inexperienceable perspective.

Reviewer: https://english.stackexchange.com/questions/85069/is-the-construction-it-allows-to-proper-english/103971

It puts the primary focus on branches (rather than commits), their relationship to each other,
and their relationship to the remote repository.
Moreover, it provides both diagnostic and corrective functionalities

> for the shape of the repository and the mentioned relationships.

Reviewer 2: @mkondratek if possible, I'd:
1. remove multiple repetitions of `relationship`
1. make this section sound less formal

Reviewer 3: "their relationship to each other and also to the remote repository"

It finds an exceptional application in maintaining linear Git history.

### Git Machete Status Graph

![Git Machete Tab with demo repository](gmt_dark.png "Git Machete Tab")

The picture above presents the demo repository _filter-service_ with a few branches.
It contains two **root branches**: _develop_ and _master_.
The first of them has two **child branches**: _allow-ownership-link_
(with another child branch - _build-chain_), and _call-ws_.

Each line contains a name of a branch, an optional custom annotation, and relation to the remote branch.

> Without going into details, the **green edge** indicates the desired state -

Reviewer 2: Pls use `&mdash;` or some Markdown equivalent (`--` or `---` IIRC) for mid-sentence dashes (see one of recent English Tips of the Day on Slack)

the tip of the child branch is a direct descendant of the parent branch tip
(i.e. all commits reachable from the parent are also reachable from the child).<br/>
On the other hand, the **red edge** tells us the opposite -
the tip of the child branch is **not** a direct descendant of the parent branch tip.

In most cases, an edge becomes red after committing some changes to the parent branch (review fixes)
or pulling new commits to the parent from a remote.

### Machete File

![Machete file](machete-file_dark.png "Machete file")

The branches presented within the graph are defined in a very simple configuration file (`.git/machete`),

> which be easily opened from the plugin's toolbar.

Reviewer 4: which can be

It supports both syntax highlighting and completion of local branch names.
The graph is automatically refreshed when `.git/machete` is modified.

Bear in mind that there is no need to edit the machete file manually to set up your branch layout tree.
Feel free to use `Discover Branch Layout` functionality that will find it out for you automatically.

> It can be performed from `Help -> Find Action...` (default shortcut: `Ctrl + Shift + A`).

Reviewer 2: Pls mention that it happens automatically now if file missing, although the discovered layout might require some manual _massage_

### Lights, Camera... Actions

The plugin provides a bunch of actions that can help you to manage your repository.

> Among the others, there is `Rebase onto parent`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Among the others, there is `Rebase onto Parent`
```

(that performs interactive rebase of a given branch onto its parent), `Push` and `Pull`.
Let's have a look at the following example...

> ![Git Machete - Actions](actions-before_dark.png "Git Machete - Actions - Before")

Reviewer 2: Pls replace with a new screenshot (so that action names are more concise)... possibly doesn't matter for other screenshots in this post, though

Branch `allow-ownership-link` is **out of sync** (red edge) to its parent - `develop`.
Furthermore, it is **ahead of** its remote branch (`origin/develop`).
With Git Machete we can quickly and conveniently lead it to a desired state.

First, `Checkout and Rebase Branch Onto Parent`.
This will perform an interactive rebase from IntelliJ.

> Once the rebase is finished the branch is now **in sync** (green edge) with its parent.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Once the rebase is finished, the branch is now **in sync** (green edge) with its parent.
```

Reviewer 2: Or even:
```suggestion
Once the rebase is finished, the branch is **in sync** (green edge) with its parent.
```

Having both `Once ...` + `now` in a single sentence sounds weird (same in Polish, try mixing `Dopiero kiedy...` and `teraz`)

Reviewer 3: You're right

## Take a look at your repository from a new perspective with Git Machete Plugin!

Git and IntelliJ-based software is currently one of the most important tools in software development.
The version control system provided with the IDE allows the undertaking of numerous necessary actions. 
Among the many useful benefits of the provided IDE and VCS integration,
the newest (introduced with IDEA 2020.2) full support of GitHub Pull Requests must be mentioned.

> It is natural that the state of more extensive repositories often gets non-intuitive and difficult to interpret over time.

Reviewer 2: Question that comes to the mind: why even have "extensive" repositories + what does it mean for a repo to be "extensive"? One might e.g. have an impression that it's about git monorepos like the one Google has for Android

Reviewer 2: So... possibly I'd even remove the word "extensive" + mention about the benefits of small PRs and/or parallel/sequential development on different branches while some are waiting for review

Given these inconveniences, [VirtusLab](https://virtuslab.com/) created a plugin  — 
**a git repository organizer, and a rebase automation tool, named Git Machete.**

It allows looking at the state of the repository from a previously inexperienceable perspective.
It puts the primary focus on branches (rather than commits), their relationship to each other, 
and their relationship to the remote repository. 
Moreover, it provides both diagnostic and corrective functionalities 
for the shape of the repository and the relationships mentioned. 
It finds an exceptional application in maintaining linear Git history.

---

> _In general, Git Machete is a tool that helps manage multiple branches within a git repository 

Reviewer 2: Yeah, this stuff contained section no longer needs to be reside under `---`, see the comment above

and thus promotes the creation of smaller &amp; more focused pull requests that are easier to review._

### Git Machete Status Graph

> ![Git Machete Tab with demo repository](gmt_dark.png "Git Machete Tab")

Reviewer 2: Whoops that's more of a problem of the sandbox setup script... but `build-chain` is untracked and still has a PR, which is rather confusing/unlikely ;D Maybe make it so that all tracked non-root branches have a `PR #...` custom annotation

The picture above presents the demo repository _filter-service_ with a few branches.
It contains two **root branches**: _develop_ and _master_. 
The first of them has two **child branches**: _allow-ownership-link_ 
(with another child branch - _build-chain_), and _call-ws_.

A line holds a part of the whole graph (the description of colors comes with the next picture),
a name of a branch, an optional custom annotation, and relation to the remote branch. 

Without going into details, the **green edge** indicates the desired state -

> the first commit of a child branch is the direct descendant of the parent's last commit.

Reviewer 2: `s/parent's last commit/parent branch tip`, same below

On the other hand, the **red edge** tells us the opposite -
the first commit of a child branch is NOT the direct descendant of the parent's last commit.

In most cases, an edge gets red after committing some changes to the parent branch (review fixes)
or pulling changes from remote.

### Machete File

![Machete file](machete-file_dark.png "Machete file")

The branches presented within the graph are defined in a very simple configuration file (`.git/machete`).

The file can be easily opened from the plugin's toolbar.
It supports both syntax highlight and local branch names completion.
The graph is automatically refreshed when `.git/machete` is modified.

### Lights, Camera... Actions

The plugin provides a bunch of actions that can help you to manage your repository.

Among the others, there is `Rebase branch onto parent` 
that performs interactive rebase of a given branch onto its parent, `Push` and `Pull`.
Let's have a look at the following example...

![Git Machete - Actions](actions-before_dark.png "Git Machete - Actions - Before")

Branch `allow-ownership-link` is **out of sync** (red edge) to its parent - `develop`.

> Furthermore, it is **ahead of** its remote branch.

Reviewer 2: Nit, for clarity:
```suggestion
Furthermore, it is **ahead of** its remote branch (`origin/develop`).
```

> With Git Machete we can quickly and comfortably lead it to a more natural state. 

Reviewer 2: `to a more natural state` is kinda unclear... maybe `to a desired state` (?)

First, `Checkout and Rebase Branch Onto Parent`.

> This will perform a well-known interactive rebase from IntelliJ.

Reviewer 2: I'd avoid saying it's `well-known` TBH ;D

Once the rebase is finished the branch is now **in sync** (green edge) with its parent.

> | VCS Log Rebase | Git Machete Rebase |

Reviewer 2: Hmm placing the gifs side-by-side makes them necessarily small... I'd say placing them one above another would increase the overall readability :mag:

Author: Okay, let's try it but I think that side by side placing reflects the pros/cons more

![Git Machete - Actions](actions-before_dark.png "Git Machete - Actions - Before")

Branch `allow-ownership-link` is **out of sync** (red edge) to its parent - `develop`.
Furthermore, it is **ahead of** its remote branch (`origin/develop`).
With Git Machete we can quickly and comfortably lead it to a desired state. 

First, `Checkout and Rebase Branch Onto Parent`.
This will perform an interactive rebase from IntelliJ.
Once the rebase is finished the branch is now **in sync** (green edge) with its parent.

#### VCS Log Rebase 
![Git Machete - Rebase](rebase-idea_dark-4x3.gif "Rebase From VCS Log")

#### Git Machete Rebase 
![Git Machete - Rebase](rebase-gm_dark-4x3.gif "Rebase From Git Machete")

Now all that's left is to `Push Branch...`. 
This action opens a (force) push dialog.
After a successful push, the remote branch is **up to date** with its remote branch.

The final repository status is shown below.

![Git Machete - Actions](actions-after_dark.png "Git Machete - Actions - After")

### Try it now

The plugin is available from the [Marketplace](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/14221-git-machete "Jet Brains Marketplace - Git Machete Plugin").

> For additional references see the project on [GitHub](https://github.com/VirtusLab/git-machete-intellij-plugin#git-machete-intellij-plugin "GitHub - Git Machete").

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For additional reference, see the project on [GitHub](https://github.com/VirtusLab/git-machete-intellij-plugin#git-machete-intellij-plugin "GitHub - Git Machete").
```

Reviewer 2: Since it's meaning 2., not 1.:
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/3383210/89202181-ddc82d80-d5b2-11ea-86a8-6759a5d13f93.png)

Among the others, there is `Rebase onto Parent`
(that performs interactive rebase of a given branch onto its parent), `Push` and `Pull`.
Let's have a look at the following example...

![Git Machete - Actions](actions-before_dark.png "Git Machete - Actions - Before")

Branch `allow-ownership-link` is **out of sync** (red edge) to its parent &mdash; `develop`.
Furthermore, it is **ahead of** its remote branch (`origin/develop`).
With Git Machete we can quickly and conveniently lead it to a desired state.

First, `Checkout and Rebase Branch Onto Parent`.
This will perform an interactive rebase from IntelliJ.
Once the rebase is finished, the branch is **in sync** (green edge) with its parent.

##### VCS Log Rebase
![Git Machete - Rebase](rebase-idea_dark-4x3.gif "Rebase From VCS Log")

##### Git Machete Rebase
![Git Machete - Rebase](rebase-gm_dark-4x3.gif "Rebase From Git Machete")

Now all that's left is to `Push...`.
This action opens a (force) push dialog. <br/>
After a successful push, the remote branch is **up to date** with its remote branch.

The final repository status is shown below.

![Git Machete - Actions](actions-after_dark.png "Git Machete - Actions - After")

> ### Motivation

Reviewer 3: It could be before #### Git Machete Status Graph

Author: JB outline suggests placing the motivation section after the plugin description :confused:

The idea standing behind the plugin is automating the developer's work.
We (developers) should strive for focusing on actual development

> and spend less time organizing our work (with no loos for its results!).

Reviewer 3: loos -> loss

## Take a look at your repository from a new perspective with Git Machete Plugin!

> Git and IntelliJ-based software are currently one of the most important tools in software development.

Reviewer 2: `software are` vs `software is`? :thinking: TBH I'm not sure, possibly `are` is indeed a better choice (same as in `The police are investigating...`)

Author: Good point! **is** since the **software** is uncountable

https://ell.stackexchange.com/questions/63241/why-are-software-advice-and-information-uncountable :trollface:

The version control system provided with the IDE allows the undertaking of numerous necessary actions. 
By focusing on commits in its presentation, 

> it makes the state of more extensive repositories difficult to interpret and non-intuitive.

Reviewer 2: Hmmm I'm ~afraid~ sure this ~might~ will be received as a direct critique of the existing tooling/ecosystem, which we should rather avoid :/

In view of these inconveniences, a company [VirtusLab](https://virtuslab.com/) created a plugin  — 
**a git repository organizer, and a rebase automation tool, named Git Machete.**

It allows looking at the state of the repository from a previously inexperienceable perspective.

> It is not about commits, but branches, their relationship to each other, 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It puts the primary focus on branches (rather than commits), their relationship to each other, 
```

and their relationship to the remote repository. 
Moreover, it provides both diagnostic and corrective functionalities 
for the shape of the repository and the relationships mentioned. 
It finds an exceptional application in maintaining the linear history of the Git. 

### Git Machete Status Graph

![Git Machete Tab with demo repository](gmt_dark.png "Git Machete Tab")

The picture above presents the demo repository _filter-service_ with a few branches.
It contains two **root branches**: _develop_ and _master_. 
The first of them has two **child branches**: _allow-ownership-link_ 
(with another child branch - _build-chain_), and _call-ws_.

> A line (a cell) holds a part of the whole graph (the description of colors comes with the next picture),

Reviewer 2: I'd remove the mention of `(a cell)`, IIUC it's only our internal impl detail that doesn't need to be leaked to the end-user

a name of a branch, an optional custom annotation, and relation to the remote branch. 

> ![Git Machete Help](help_dark.png "Git Machete Help")

Reviewer 2: Hmm what is this `"..."` part within the parens? :hushed:

Author: This is the text shown when you move the mouse cursor over the picture. I did not know about it before either! :rocket:

Reviewer 2: Wow but doesn't the text in `[...]` already serve as the alt-text for images?

Reviewer 2: But I see the distinction for regular links: `[text](URL "alt-text")`

Author: > Wow but doesn't the text in `[...]` already serve as the alt-text for images?

Nope, it does not. No `"..."`, no text no hover.

> Without going into details, the green edge indicates the desired state -

Reviewer 2: TBH as for _gateway drug_, I'd completely skip any mention of yellow branches (possibly also of gray branches); for that reason, I wouldn't include the help window in any promo materials like this one

the first commit of a child branch is the direct descendant of the parent's last commit.

---

> _In general, Git Machete is a tool that helps manage multiple branches within a git repository 

Reviewer 2: This most likely should go earlier in the text

> and thus promotes the creation of smaller pull requests that are (usually) easier to review._

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
and thus promotes the creation of smaller &amp; more focused pull requests that are easier to review._
```

### Machete File

![Machete file](machete_file.png "Machete file")

> The branches presented within the graph are being defined by a special configuration file (`.git/machete`).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The branches presented within the graph are defined in a very simple configuration file (`.git/machete`).
```

The file can be easily opened from the plugin's toolbar.
It supports both syntax highlight and local branch names completion.

> The file listens to changes to itself and allows to refresh the table.

Reviewer 2: A bit too technical; maybe just (?):

```suggestion
The graph is automatically refreshed when `.git/machete` is modified.
```

Also, make sure that the `graph` or `table` is used consistently across the text (I'd rather go for `graph`, more unique)

### Lights, Camera... Actions

![Git Machete - Actions](actions.png "Git Machete - Actions")

The plugin provides a bunch of actions that can help you to manage your repository.

> Among the others, there is `Rebase branch onto parent` 

Reviewer 2: I'd generally extend this section a bit, possibly include another screenshot of the state after a bunch of rebase/force-push actions have been performed (+ a corresponding comment ofc)

that performs interactive rebase of a given branch onto its parent, `Push` and `Pull`.

### Try it now

The plugin is available from the [Marketplace](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/14221-git-machete "Jet Brains Marketplace - Git Machete Plugin").

> For additional references see the GitHub [page](https://github.com/VirtusLab/git-machete-intellij-plugin "GitHub - Git Machete") too. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For additional references see the project on [GitHub](https://github.com/VirtusLab/git-machete-intellij-plugin#git-machete-intellij-plugin "GitHub - Git Machete").
```

Reviewer 2: As a small optimization, it's generally better to link to `#git-machete-intellij-plugin` anchor wherever possible (this can be changed in plugin.xml as well) so that it's readily scrolled past file/dir list (which is well longer than the average in our case).

---

> _If you work with a git rebase flow, Git Machete will (vastly!) help you manage 

Reviewer 2: Hmm is it intentionally left here?

Author: Yup, I thought that this one and `In general, Git Machete is a tool...` can be smth like side notes - maybe not directly related to the containing section but important comments

## Take a look at your repository from a new perspective with Git Machete Plugin!

Git and IntelliJ-based software is currently one of the most important tools in software development.
The version control system provided with the IDE allows the undertaking of numerous necessary actions. 
Despite the many benefits of the provided IDE and VCS integration, 

> the state of more extensive repositories often gets difficult to interpret and non-intuitive.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the state of more extensive repositories often gets non-intuitive and difficult to interpret.
```

> Given these inconveniences, a company [VirtusLab](https://virtuslab.com/) created a plugin  — 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Given these inconveniences, [VirtusLab](https://virtuslab.com/) created a plugin  — 
```

**a git repository organizer, and a rebase automation tool, named Git Machete.**

It allows looking at the state of the repository from a previously inexperienceable perspective.
It puts the primary focus on branches (rather than commits), their relationship to each other, 
and their relationship to the remote repository. 
Moreover, it provides both diagnostic and corrective functionalities 
for the shape of the repository and the relationships mentioned. 

> It finds an exceptional application in maintaining the linear history of the Git. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It finds an exceptional application in maintaining linear Git history.
```

---
_In general, Git Machete is a tool that helps manage multiple branches within a git repository 
and thus promotes the creation of smaller &amp; more focused pull requests that are easier to review._

### Git Machete Status Graph

![Git Machete Tab with demo repository](gmt_dark.png "Git Machete Tab")

The picture above presents the demo repository _filter-service_ with a few branches.
It contains two **root branches**: _develop_ and _master_. 
The first of them has two **child branches**: _allow-ownership-link_ 
(with another child branch - _build-chain_), and _call-ws_.

A line holds a part of the whole graph (the description of colors comes with the next picture),
a name of a branch, an optional custom annotation, and relation to the remote branch. 

Without going into details, the green edge indicates the desired state -

> the first commit of a child branch is the direct descendant of the parent's last commit.

Reviewer 2: ...but red edge would be nice to mention, though, otherwise we'll leave the user confused

## Take a look at your repository from a new perspective with Git Machete Plugin!

Git and IntelliJ-based software is currently one of the most important tools in software development.
The version control system provided with the IDE allows the undertaking of numerous necessary actions. 
Despite the many benefits of the provided IDE and VCS integration, 
the state of more extensive repositories often gets non-intuitive and difficult to interpret.

Given these inconveniences, [VirtusLab](https://virtuslab.com/) created a plugin  — 

> **a git repository organizer, and a rebase automation tool, named Git Machete.**

Reviewer 5: isn't this `a` sound strange nearly another `a` (one word earlier)?

Reviewer 2: Rather okay, I think the rule of the thumb in English/Polish is that the shorter (and less "unique") the word, the more acceptable it is to repeat it in close proximity to the previous occurrence

It finds an exceptional application in maintaining linear Git history.

---
_In general, Git Machete is a tool that helps manage multiple branches within a git repository 
and thus promotes the creation of smaller &amp; more focused pull requests that are easier to review._

### Git Machete Status Graph

![Git Machete Tab with demo repository](gmt_dark.png "Git Machete Tab")

The picture above presents the demo repository _filter-service_ with a few branches.
It contains two **root branches**: _develop_ and _master_. 
The first of them has two **child branches**: _allow-ownership-link_ 
(with another child branch - _build-chain_), and _call-ws_.

A line holds a part of the whole graph (the description of colors comes with the next picture),
a name of a branch, an optional custom annotation, and relation to the remote branch. 

Without going into details, the **green edge** indicates the desired state -
the first commit of a child branch is the direct descendant of the parent's last commit.
On the other hand, the **red edge** tells us the opposite -
the first commit of a child branch is NOT the direct descendant of the parent's last commit.

> In most cases, an edge gets red after committing some changes to the parent branch (review fixes)

Reviewer 5: I'd add here something like: if edge is green -> everything ok (in sync), if red -> not ok (probably rebase is needed).
It seems to be more clear for people that are not into git.

Author: Explained above. I would not call it **ok/not ok** cause it does not tell us about what is right but what it is

or pulling changes from remote.

### Machete File

![Machete file](machete-file_dark.png "Machete file")

The branches presented within the graph are defined in a very simple configuration file (`.git/machete`).

The file can be easily opened from the plugin's toolbar.
It supports both syntax highlight and local branch names completion.
The graph is automatically refreshed when `.git/machete` is modified.

### Lights, Camera... Actions

The plugin provides a bunch of actions that can help you to manage your repository.

Among the others, there is `Rebase branch onto parent` 

> that performs interactive rebase of a given branch onto its parent, `Push` and `Pull`.

Reviewer 5: TBH, I don't get the fragment `Push and Pull`. It's sounds to me like something without context (or I misunderstood this?)

Reviewer 2: Yeah, maybe:
```suggestion
Among the others, there is `Rebase branch onto parent` (that performs interactive rebase of a given branch onto its parent), `Push` and `Pull`.
```

Let's have a look at the following example...

![Git Machete - Actions](actions-slim_dark.png "Git Machete - Actions")

Branch `allow-ownership-link` is **out of sync** (red edge) to its parent - `develop`.
Furthermore, it is **ahead of** its remote branch.
With Git Machete we can quickly and comfortably lead it to a more natural state. 

First, `Checkout and Rebase Branch Onto Parent`.
This will perform a well-known interactive rebase from IntelliJ.
Once the rebase is finished the branch is now **in sync** (green edge) with its parent.

Second, `Push Branch...`. 

> This action opens a usual push dialog.

Reviewer 5: I'd mention that this is the `force push` in this case

Once the rebase is finished the branch is now **in sync** (green edge) with its parent.

| VCS Log Rebase | Git Machete Rebase |
| --- | --- |
| ![Git Machete - Rebase](rebase-idea.gif "Rebase From VCS Log") |  ![Git Machete - Rebase](rebase-gm.gif "Rebase From Git Machete") |

> 

Reviewer 5: :heart: :+1:
